New Chapter "Risks of Bias in Research" (#3819)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/project-design/risks-of-bias/identifying-risks-of-bias.md

(pd-risks-of-bias-identifying-risks-of-bias-analysis)=
## Analysis and Reporting
Bias remains an issue after the data collection stage, with potential risks in the data analysis and reporting of results. 

Weak validation can lead to bias due to overly optimistic results.
For example, if results are generated using a single small test set then they may be better than expected (optimistic) simply due to random chance. 
This is especially true if many different experiments are conducted, with a large enough number of experiments guaranteeing at least one positive result due to random chance. 
This is sometimes referred to as 'p-hacking' in a statistical context where positive results have small p-values, and as such it is not always sufficient to use the standard p-value threshold of 0.05 (for example, [genome-wide association studies](https://academic.oup.com/g3journal/article/11/2/jkaa056/6080665) often use a threshold of 0.00000005, which can be written more clearly as 5x10<sup>-8</sup>). 

Weak validations give imprecise results which are unlikely to generalise well to data outside of the training set. Thorough validation methods are explored in the 

> {ref}`validation and generalisability subchapter <project-design/pd-bias/pd-bias-validation>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ref}`validation and generalisability subchapter <pd-risks-of-bias-validation-generalisability>`. 
```
